.TH IMESSAGE-EXPORTER 1 "2026" "imessage-exporter 0.2.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
imessage-exporter \- export macOS iMessage/SMS history to TXT, JSON, or HTML
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imessage-exporter
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B imessage-exporter
reads a macOS Messages database (\fBchat.db\fR) read-only and writes each
conversation to a portable file. By default it reads
.IR $HOME/Library/Messages/chat.db ,
which on a Mac signed into Messages (with \fIMessages in iCloud\fR enabled) holds
the full synced history. A database can also be extracted from an unencrypted
iTunes/Finder device backup with \fB--backup\fR.
.PP
There is no direct iCloud download for messages: Apple exposes no API and
\fIMessages in iCloud\fR is end-to-end encrypted, so history must come from a
synced Mac or a device backup.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --db " PATH"
Path to the Messages database. Default: \fI$HOME/Library/Messages/chat.db\fR.
.TP
.BI --format " FMT"
Output format: \fBtxt\fR, \fBjson\fR, or \fBhtml\fR. Default: \fBtxt\fR.
.TP
.BI --output " DIR"
Directory for exported files. Default: \fI./imessage-export\fR.
.TP
.BI --me " NAME"
Label for messages you sent. Default: \fBMe\fR.
.TP
.BI --since " DATE"
Only messages on/after \fIDATE\fR (\fBYYYY-MM-DD\fR[\fB HH:MM:SS\fR]).
.TP
.BI --until " DATE"
Only messages on/before \fIDATE\fR; a date alone means the end of that day.
.TP
.B --combined
Write one combined file instead of one per conversation.
.TP
.B --copy-attachments
Copy attachment files into \fI<output>/attachments\fR and link them.
.TP
.B --contacts
Resolve names via the default macOS Contacts database.
.TP
.BI --contacts-db " PATH"
Resolve names via a specific \fB.abcddb\fR or vCard \fB.vcf\fR file (or directory).
.TP
.BI --backup " SPEC"
Source from an iTunes/Finder backup: a directory path, a device UDID, or
\fBlatest\fR. Unencrypted backups only.
.TP
.B --list-backups
List discovered device backups and exit.
.TP
.B --list-chats
List conversations and exit.
.TP
.BI --log-level " LVL"
Log verbosity: \fBerror\fR, \fBwarn\fR, \fBinfo\fR, \fBdebug\fR (or set
\fBIMSG_LOG_LEVEL\fR). Default: \fBwarn\fR.
.TP
.BR -v ", " -vv
Shortcuts for \fB--log-level info\fR / \fB--log-level debug\fR.
.TP
.B --version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B --help
Show help and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B IMSG_LOG_LEVEL
Default log level when \fB--log-level\fR is not given.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/Messages/chat.db
Default Messages database (macOS).
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application Support/AddressBook
Default Contacts location used by \fB--contacts\fR (macOS).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B 0
on success, non-zero on error (e.g. database not found, no conversations).
.SH NOTES
On modern macOS the running terminal needs Full Disk Access to read
.IR chat.db .
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation: https://github.com/grioghar/imessage-exporter-redux
.SH LICENSE
MIT.
